---
title: "FLL Into Orbit 2019"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - link
  - Post Formats
link: https://github.com
---

FLL Martians- my team and I reached the international level in FLL Lego robotic competition, “Into orbit” challenge of 2019. CAD tools like LDD were used to design hardware and this led to the world of creativity. I put in a lot of my creativity building the base robot so that it is as modular as it gets. my biggest advice is not to try all the mission in the table. First, plan in such a way that you can add more mission to your preexisting missions if you have time left. Start with a small number of missions and then make that work 10/10 times such that on competition day you can show confident you are and surprise the judges by showing how reliable it is. Be prepared to rework your attachment design when you are coding because it is always easier to change the hardware than the software. I worked in coding for the robot. This part can take some time because you are going to keep running and this where you need stamina. Once you start coding don’t stop unless it is necessary because it takes time to get back into rhythm. You can waste up to 2 hours trying to get into a rhythm and work in full concentration. This is the time when you work late night because good result never comes in the first week so you should not give up so easily and have perseverance. Once you have finished one attachment with its code and hardware, keep it closed so that nobody should touch. This is because there is very less chance of it being broken. You must make sure to have at least 2 backups of your code because you may never know when the code in your computer gets corrupted. I learnt this the hard way, when we were almost done with a run the code file was corrupted and we were insane. One of the team members almost broke the laptop in half!
